Puny Mossy Duck

High

# UsualSP removeOriginalAllocation does not call _updateReward before zeroing recipient balances depriving them of already earned rewards

### Summary

the [removeOriginalAllocation function](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-10-usual-labs-v1/blob/main/pegasus/packages/solidity/src/token/UsualSP.sol#L367) in UsualSP enables the UsualSP operator to remove a previously granted allocation, setting to zero the recipient originalAllocation and originalClaimed. However, if the recipient has unclaimed rewards, they will lose access to them, because _updateReward(removedRecipient) is not called before the removal. In addition, the lost funds will remain locked in the UsualSP contract indefinitely and can not be used in any way.

### Root Cause

The root cause is that in removeOriginalAllocation,  recipients have their originalAllocations zeroed without a prior call to _updateReward. This breaks reward accounting because _updateReward has to be called before any action that affects a user's UsualSP balance, otherwise any subsequent call to  _updateReward on that user will calculate the reward update based on an outdated balance that had already changed since the pervious update.

In the case of removeOriginalAllocation, any recipient due reward that was not acounted for yet (through any call that triggers  _updateReward) will be lost, because the next call to _updateReward will update the reward based on a zero balance.

```solidity
function removeOriginalAllocation(address[] calldata recipients) external {
    if (recipients.length == 0) {
        revert InvalidInputArraysLength();
    }

    UsualSPStorageV0 storage $ = _usualSPStorageV0();
    $.registryAccess.onlyMatchingRole(USUALSP_OPERATOR_ROLE);

    for (uint256 i; i < recipients.length;) {

        //AUDITOR COMMENT: Call to _updateReward should have been done here
        $.originalAllocation[recipients[i]] = 0;
        $.originalClaimed[recipients[i]] = 0;

        emit RemovedOriginalAllocation(recipients[i]);
        unchecked {
            ++i;
        }
    }
}
```

### Internal pre-conditions

1. A user with an original allocation in UsualSP gets their allocation removed through removeOriginalAllocation.
2. That user has due rewards that were not yet updated through _updateReward.

### External pre-conditions

None

### Attack Path

1. Bob gets an original allocation of 1000 UsualS, locked in UsualSP
2. Some time goes by and some rewards are distributed to UsualSP from the DistributionModel
3. Bob takes no action and therefore no amount of his already-earned reward has been cached yet in the $.rewards map.
4. The UsualSP Operator calls removeOriginalAllocation on Bob. As a result Bob has his originalAllocation balance set to zero. No call to _updateReward is made before the zeroing.
5. Bob calls claimReward. As part of the call _updateReward is called, but since Bob now has a zero balance, they get zero rewards and lose the reward they have already earned before the removal.
6. Bob's due reward remains locked in the UsualSP contract indefinitely because assuming reward accounting works as intended (except for this bug) no other user can be attributed this "extra reward". In addition, there is no reward swipe function on the contract that would an enable an admin to manually swipe and handle the forgone reward.

### Impact

1. Loss of funds (already earned rewards) for users
2. Permanent lock of rewards (Unusal) in the UsualSP contract.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

In removeOriginalAllocation, call _updateReward on each removed user before their allocation is zeroed.