Late Opal Shrimp

Medium

# Wrong implementation of permit in swapRWAtoStbc

### Summary

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-10-usual-labs-v1/blob/main/pegasus/packages/solidity/src/daoCollateral/DaoCollateral.sol#L768-L778

The swapRWAtoStbc  function in the daoCollateral.sol attempts to use the permit function of an ERC-20 token to approve a transfer, but restricts this functionality by using msg.sender as the owner parameter in the permit call. This approach limits the permit feature, preventing third-party addresses (such as relayers) from submitting the transaction on behalf of the owner. While this does not result in a loss of funds or introduce a security vulnerability, it breaks the expected functionality of off-chain approvals as defined in EIP-2612.

### Root Cause

The swapRWAtoStbc function hardcodes msg.sender as the owner in the call to _swapRWAtoStbc(
            msg.sender, rwaToken, amountInTokenDecimals, partialMatching, orderIdsToTake, approval
        ), meaning only the original signer can call swapWithPermit, instead of allowing any authorized address (e.g., a relayer) to perform the action.

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

_No response_

### Impact

Severity: Low
Impact Description: The impact is limited to broken functionality. By using msg.sender as owner, the function prevents third-party relayers from calling swapRWAtoStbc on behalf of the owner. This diminishes the usability of the permit feature but does not pose a security risk or cause financial loss.


### PoC

A user signs a permit message off-chain, authorizing address(this) to spend amount tokens on their behalf.
A relayer or third-party address attempts to execute swapRWAtoStbc using the signed permit parameters.
The transaction fails unless msg.sender matches the original owner of the permit signature, breaking the intended functionality for off-chain approvals by third parties.


### Mitigation

To enable relayer functionality and restore the intended use of permit, modify swapRWAtoStbc to accept an owner parameter rather than hardcoding msg.sender. This change allows any authorized caller to submit the signed permit on behalf of the owner.
```solidity
   function swapRWAtoStbc(
        address owner
        address rwaToken,
        uint256 amountInTokenDecimals,
        bool partialMatching,
        uint256[] calldata orderIdsToTake,
        Approval calldata approval
    ) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused whenSwapNotPaused {
        _swapRWAtoStbc(
           owner, rwaToken, amountInTokenDecimals, partialMatching, orderIdsToTake, approval
        );
    }

```
