Swift Saffron Elk

Medium

# Lack of whenNotPaused Modifier on deposit Function Allows Deposits When Paused

### Summary

The UsualX contract, inheriting from ERC4626Upgradeable, does not apply the whenNotPaused modifier to the deposit function. While depositWithPermit, withdraw, and redeem methods are correctly restricted by whenNotPaused, the deposit function remains unprotected. As a result, even when the contract is paused, users can still deposit assets through the deposit function, bypassing intended pause restrictions.

### Root Cause

The `UsualX` contract’s `depositWithPermit` function implements the `whenNotPaused` modifier to disable deposits when the contract is paused. However, UsualX does not override the `deposit` and `mint` functions, which are inherited from `ERC4626Upgradeable` without pause protection. This allows users to continue depositing assets through the deposit and mint functions even when the contract is paused.

```solidity
    function depositWithPermit(
        uint256 assets,
        address receiver,
        uint256 deadline,
        uint8 v,
        bytes32 r,
        bytes32 s
    ) external whenNotPaused nonReentrant returns (uint256 shares) {
        try IERC20Permit(asset()).permit(msg.sender, address(this), assets, deadline, v, r, s) {} // solhint-disable-line no-empty-blocks
            catch {} // solhint-disable-line no-empty-blocks

        return deposit(assets, receiver);
    }
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-10-usual-labs-v1/blob/4fb4a64a479e0b9b8f93934220e891c29d54df33/pegasus/packages/solidity/src/vaults/UsualX.sol#L297

### Internal pre-conditions

1. Admin needs to call the pause function to set the contract’s pause status to true.
2. User needs to call the deposit function directly without using depositWithPermit, which has a whenNotPaused modifier.




### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. Admin calls pause() to set the contract to a paused state.
2. User calls the deposit function directly, as whenNotPaused is not applied.
3.  Assets are successfully deposited into the vault despite the paused state, undermining emergency controls.

### Impact

users can bypass the pause restriction and deposit funds into the vault

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Override the deposit and mint function to apply the whenNotPaused modifier