Fun Parchment Hamster

Medium

# Lack of whenNotPaused modifier on inherited deposit() allows deposits during pause state

### Summary

The missing `whenNotPaused` modifier on the inherited `deposit()` function will allow deposits to bypass the pause restriction. This issue results in inconsistent enforcement of the pause state, potentially compromising the protocol’s control during maintenance or security incidents.

### Root Cause

The `deposit()` function, inherited from OpenZeppelin’s `ERC4626`, does not have the `whenNotPaused` modifier, allowing users to continue depositing even when the contract is paused.

https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/master/contracts/token/ERC20/extensions/ERC4626.sol#L171

```solidity
    function deposit(uint256 assets, address receiver) public virtual returns (uint256) {
```

### Internal pre-conditions

1. `Admin` needs to set the contract to a [paused state](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-10-usual-labs-v1/blob/main/pegasus/packages/solidity/src/vaults/UsualX.sol#L139-L143).
2. The `whenNotPaused` modifier is only applied to [`depositWithPermit()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-10-usual-labs-v1/blob/main/pegasus/packages/solidity/src/vaults/UsualX.sol#L304) in `UsualX`, not the inherited `deposit()` function.

### External pre-conditions

Users will have access to OpenZeppelin’s inherited `deposit()` function to call it directly.

### Attack Path

1. Admin pauses the contract to restrict all deposits.
2. A user calls the inherited `deposit()` function, bypassing the `whenNotPaused` restriction that applies only to `depositWithPermit()`, which is the only deposit option included in the `UsualX` contract.
3. This allows deposits to continue during the paused state, undermining the protocol’s intended controls.

### Impact

The protocol’s control over deposits is weakened during a paused state, as users can continue to deposit using the inherited `deposit()` function. This may disrupt intended maintenance, upgrades, or emergency actions requiring deposits to be temporarily halted.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Include and  override deposit() in UsualX and apply whenNotPaused to ensure it respects the paused state:

```diff
+    function deposit(uint256 assets, address receiver) public override whenNotPaused returns (uint256 shares) {
+        // Call _deposit directly to save gas and ensure consistency
+        shares = _deposit(assets, receiver);
+    }
```